a United Nations inquiry has found
Israeli forces may have committed war
crimes and crimes against humanity by
targeting unarmed children journalists
and the disabled in Gaza the report
released by the UN Human Rights Council
Thursday looked at Israel's bloody
response to weekly great march of return
demonstrations launched by Palestinians
in Gaza nearly a year ago if you listen
to the radio you may have heard it said
that Israel is now facing allegations
that they are guilty of crimes against
humanity that the guilty of war crimes
that they're guilty of shooting and
killing children with snipers when these
children were engaged in peaceful
protests at the Israeli border these
allegations come from a United Nations
Human Rights Council and right away this
narrative stirs up emotions
perhaps contradictory and collected
emotions for some perhaps just sympathy
for the side that is getting shot dead
it's completely understandable but
sympathy especially in politics must
always be used as an analytical tool and
if you want to really understand what's
going on here let's not be vague let's
look at the particulars and let's try to
sympathize also with the side that's
been pulling the triggers because I can
tell you when I did the research on this
when I started looking into it how could
I or how could anyone else who's on the
other side of that fence with orders to
shoot people who are starting to cut
through the fence how could they have
acted differently quote Israeli security
forces I'm just gonna say it the Israeli
military the Israeli military chard a 16
year old in the neck with live
ammunition at the demonstration or this
so-called peaceful protest was taking
place on August 3rd where he had crossed
the barbed wire together with other
youths let's just pause for a moment the
picture you see on screen this is not
the same young man but this is a group
of young men doing the same thing
part of the same protest this is not
necessarily the same day not necessarily
the same young men all right
but this is indicative now what you see
happening here at this fence barbed wire
and so on if this were any other border
in the world what would you expect the
soldiers to do what if these were I
don't know Mexicans coming up to a
barbed wire fence where American
boarders were guarding the fence with
orders to shoot to kill someone if they
try to cut through the fence or if they
come through the barbed wire what if it
was the border between Iran and Turkey
what if it was the border between China
and India
what if was the border between India and
Pakistan any border in the world guarded
with a fence guarded by heavily armed
men if you had people coming up and
trying to cut through the fence and so
on what do you expect these soldiers to
do now in this case especially this is a
context where there's smoke in the air
there are in fact explosive devices
being used by the Palestinian side being
sent over explosive and incendiary
devices there are also rocks being
hurled there are various things that add
to the sense of of ongoing conflict but
we continue he was hurling stones at the
Israeli military from a distance of
approximately 20 meters from the
separation fence the Israeli military
opened heavy fire on the group striking
the young man who was then transferred
to a hospital in Hebron where he
remained for two weeks
he returned to Gaza and was admitted the
intensive care unit but was pronounced
dead in September the Commission finds
that this young man did not pose an
imminent threat of death or serious
injury to the Israeli soldiers when he
was shot so let's not be vague people
this can be vaguely described as quote
unquote shooting a child who was quote
unquote not a threat at a quote unquote
peaceful protest
take a look at this short film clip and
you tell me if by any reasonable
definition
let alone a United Nations definition
this could be described as a peaceful
protest a group of protesters splits off
and digs in at the barbed wire the IDF
is caught off guard they race up in
jeeps the protesters throw stones and
firebombs the IDF responds again with a
barrage of gas
pushing many of the protesters back
having an ideology is easy having
sympathy is hard work it's tough it's
exhausting it's demoralizing and that's
exactly what I'm here to ask you to do
I'm here to ask you to have some
detachment and some compassion not just
for the people who got shot but also for
the men who pulled the triggers and why
not for the purpose of building up your
self-esteem not to make yourself feel
like you're better than those who happen
to disagree with you
those who have to be members of a rival
political party I'm asking to do it for
the sake understanding what this
situation is the difference between
fiction and nonfiction and the sometimes
pernicious role that not merely national
governments play in this game
but the United Nations itself that the
United Nations has in many ways become
no better than and no different from the
lowest form of biased journalism this is
a separate account of a 16 year old
being shot dead by the Israeli army and
at 16 years old this account can be
indeed categorized as a child shot dead
as they're using 18 as the legal
definition of the beginning of adulthood
5:00 p.m. on the 7th of September the
Israeli military shot this 16 year old
in the chest as he was approximately 300
meters from the fence walking toward it
he died from his injuries on the same
day according to an eyewitness there was
a heavy presence of the Israeli military
on the Israeli side of the fence on the
afternoon that he was shot a group
protesters had been burning tires
throwing rocks and launching incendiary
kites near the fence which started a
fire in an Israeli military
communication tower it just pause room
here I know it may sound like a joke
these incendiary kites I looked into it
it is not a joke
these are deadly serious they've done
very serious damage to property and in
this case it wasn't just a field full of
corn that lit on fire the Israeli
military on the other side of the fence
there had their tower light on fire so I
don't know what definition of a peaceful
demonstration or peaceful protest you're
using I do not see how any objective
outside observer whether from the United
Nations or from the New York Times I do
not see how anyone could regard what's
happening here as a peaceful protest and
I don't know how you could expect the
military defending a border in effect
defending a fence defending a border
garrison defending their tower I don't
see how you would expect them to
practice non-violence when this is what
they're facing from the other side so
Israeli military vehicles responded by
firing live ammunition and tear gas
toward the demonstrators photographs
show heavy smoke fire and tear gas that
afternoon while the demonstrations were
certainly chaotic and threatening the
Commission does not find that this young
man posed an imminent threat of death or
serious injuries to Israeli military
soldiers when he was shot now I ask you
in those conditions if it were you if
you were on the Israeli military side
would you have pulled the trigger
freedom of the press
does not consist only of the freedom to
tell the truth it does include the
freedom to misrepresent and to lie and
it's very very easy to misrepresent the
facts when they're in such an
emotionally charged context
in this case we're told 35 of those
killed were children three were clearly
identifiable paramedics and two were
marked as journalists this makes it
sound as if the Israeli military were
intentionally targeting paramedics how
is it possible that at a protest just by
accident or happenstance they would
happen to shoot so many paramedics this
claim becomes absurd when you simply
look at the numbers at this series of
protests transpiring over several months
over 6,000 people were shot out of those
6,000 only a few were journalists and
paramedics and as you're about to see
the journalists and paramedics were very
much bunched together with the
protesters surrounded by smoke and so on
and to some extent they were
participating in the protests coming
right up to the fence and so on
on the contrary these same numbers do
indicate the extent to which the Israeli
military were taking great pains making
great efforts not to shoot children
journalists and paramedics because this
is a tremendously small percentage of
the more than 6,000 people who did
indeed get shot does that sound surreal
and cold and cruel for me to say that
this is politics this is political
analysis we have to be sympathetic cold
and cruel by turns let's remind
notice two people point they told us
they saw where the bullet hit the ground
just a few feet from the medics the
bullet continued onward this is the 21st
century and these events tend to be
recorded from many different angles on
many different video cameras on many
different mobile phones
not to mention security cameras
maintained by the military what have you
and the New York Times they took the
story of a medic of a nurse who was shot
in the center of her chest and they
really put in the work to make a complex
3d model in a diagram and to figure out
the precise trajectory of the bullet and
how it was that she was shot in the
center of her chest I would like to
suggest to you as a speculation that
when they started doing that research
they probably imagined that they would
want to prove that the Israeli military
intentionally with cruel disregard for
human life targeted and shot this woman
in the middle of her chest despite the
fact that she was there as a medic that
she was there just to help injured
protesters but in fact as you can see
from this diagram on screen what the New
York Times figured out was that the
border guards fired a warning shot that
struck the ground and then this warning
shot ricocheted up and hit this woman as
it happens right in the center of the
chest there's absolutely no way the
border guard could have intentionally
planned for this ricochet to hit her on
the contrary they were trying to move
the protesters back in a situation again
that is so violent it really cannot be
described as a protest at all and I
think amongst the numbers of killings
what we also found which was a great
concern was the fact that protected
groups who are protected categories
international law protected persons such
as children people with disabilities and
also the health workers and journalists
were amongst those who were both killed
it's really easy to tell this tale in
terms of contrasting ideological
extremes on the one hand you have the
extremes of the Muslim fundamentalists
and the other hand you have people like
this shown on screen American Christian
fundamentalists who will support Israel
and support the Israeli military no
matter how many crimes against humanity
they may commit so on and so forth but
there's another more subtle and
pervasive form of idealism at work here
in terms of what the United Nations has
done in publishing this report and what
the mainstream press has done in
recycling and propounding it in a
totally unquestioning manner and the
report if you just even read what I have
on screen for you here the report has
internal contradictions it makes no
sense for Barbara Bebo who's earning a
good living earning a salary from Al
Jazeera to write this article it makes
no sense for it a simply quote wholesale
to just word-for-word copy what to die
Nations has told her the situation is
especially not when look at the
highlighted text there highlighted in
yellow when you're reporting that these
people were hurling stones using
incendiary kites and balloons so fire
bombs of various kinds and we're cutting
through the fence at the border and
you're just reporting this as if there's
no contradiction there if there's
nothing further to reflect on there's no
contradiction within the source
recording from your reporting that this
was a peaceful protest and then it was a
crime against humanity for these people
to be shot when cutting holes through
the fence etc now if you go up to a
prison and you're on the outside you're
having a quote unquote peaceful protest
in front of a prison and then you start
cutting through the fence will you be
shot is it or is it not the job of the
prison guards to shoot you if you are
protesting at the border between any two
countries pick any example you like
again the border between Iran and Turkey
to use
to Muslim nation so let's say hey the
border between Turkey and and Cyprus
there's a contentious border where there
sometimes are protests if you're who
don't quote protesting at that bar
border and there are fire bombs etc and
then people are cutting through the
fence and you're just gonna report on
this in this manner you're just gonna
reproduce without questioning the
contradictions within the United Nations
report why does the United Nations even
exist and why does so-called
independent journalism exist if this is
what you get from sources as diverse as
Al Jazeera and democracy now I'll play
the clip again democracy now as we heard
the opening of this video a United
Nations inquiry has found Israeli forces
may have committed war crimes and crimes
against humanity by targeting unarmed
children journalists and the disabled in
Gaza let's not fall into the trap of
complaining that a human being is merely
all too human when they went to the
United Nations to get an opinion they
did not get an objective and unbiased
opinion from a faceless institution they
got the opinion of Sarah Hossein Sarah
Hossein has her own Wikipedia article if
you think Sarah Hossein is an unbiased
and detached observer of the asleep
that's the conflict you must be dreaming
Sarah Husain represents someone who has
lived her entire life an unbelievable
level of privilege beginning with her
degree from Oxford University and
proceeding to being in the Supreme Court
of Bangladesh and now being one of the
Lords of poverty over at the United
Nations so don't judge based on
appearances don't just judge based on
her name or the fact that she is
Bangladeshi but the perspective of Sarah
Hussain is going to be much much
different than if you employed someone
either to conduct this research or to
present the findings in a reasonable way
to the press on behalf the other nations
if you employed someone who maybe had
combat experience someone who had
himself or herself served as a border
guard who had been through those types
of conflicts
maybe you'd get a different perspective
than you would from presenting someone
who was the winner of the 2016
International Women of Courage Award
awarded by the United States Secretary
of State
Sarah Husain does not represent the
United Nations and there's the further
deeper question of who or what the
United Nations itself is supposed to
represent these questions were already
raised decades ago in a book that was
popular at the time but has now been
forgotten 1994 lords of poverty the more
fundamental questions we have to ask you
in terms of what are the vectors for
political change I don't think they can
be productively directed towards the
Palestinians you're not really going to
be able to appeal to Hamas to having a
more enlightened perspective on this and
they can't be directed towards the
teenagers doing military service pulling
the triggers standing on the other side
of that fence it is not reasonable to
demand that in the name of human rights
they stand idly by and let people cut
through the barbed wire and cut through
the fence and come through that would
only lead to them shooting them what's
the through the other side of the fence
it's absurd but what we can do
productively I think here and now a
difference we can make in just the next
couple of years is start to criticize
and question the United Nations the role
played by the United Nations here and
then the role played by the mainstream
press people who are earning a lot more
money than I do click on the link below
this video you can find out exactly how
many dollars and cents that make our
doing political analysis on YouTube by
the way people were making more money
than I do and who are taking propaganda
generated by particular people with
particular political biases of the
United Nations and they're just
repackaging it and presenting it to the
public as so-called independent
journalism
[Music]